
The Dominican Republic is situated on the eastern part of the second largest island in the Greater Antilles, Hispaniola. It shares the island roughly at a 2:1 ratio with Haiti. The country's area is reported almost as 50 thousands km2(square kilometer)  making it the second largest country in the Antilles, after Cuba. 

The Dominican Republic, the eastern part of the island of Hispaniola, has a tropical climate, hot all year round, with a dry season in winter, and a rainy season which goes from late April to October along the eastern and southern coasts, while the northern coast, exposed to the trade winds, is rainy throughout the year, although it experiences a decrease in rainfall from June to September. 




Saint dominic Castilian priest in honor of him.
largest metropolitan area in the Caribbean by population
In 2010, its population was counted as 965,040 (900 thousands) rising to 2,908,607(3 millions) when its surrounding metropolitan area was included
Founded by Bartholomew Columbus in 1496, on the east bank of the Ozama River
moved by Nicolás de Ovando in 1502 to the west bank of the river
the city is the oldest continuously inhabited European settlement in the Americas, 
was the first seat of the Spanish colonial rule in the New World.

Panoramic view
satellite view

The Ozama river flows 148 kilometres (92 miles) before emptying into the Caribbean Sea. Santo Domingo's position on its banks was of great importance to the city's economic development and the growth of trade during colonial times. The Ozama River is where the country's busiest port is located.






Dominican Spanish
The official language spoken in the Dominican Republic is Spanish. However, dialects are spoken across the country. The local dialect of the Dominican Republic is called Dominican Spanish and has some African influences. Moreover, it has borrowed vocabularies from the Arawak language.The Arawak are a group of indigenous peoples of South America and of the Caribbean.

 


Haitian Creole is the largest minority language in the Dominican Republic and is spoken by Haitian immigrants and their descendants.
 There is a community of a few thousand people whose ancestors spoke Samaná English in the Samaná Peninsula. They are the descendants of formerly enslaved African Americans who arrived in the nineteenth century, but only a few elders speak the language today.
Schools are based on a Spanish educational model; English and French are mandatory foreign languages in both private and public schools. Some private educational institutes provide teaching on other languages, notably Italian, Japanese, and Mandarin.
 Tourism, American pop culture, the influence of Dominican Americans, and the country's economic ties with the United States motivate other Dominicans to learn English. The Dominican Republic is ranked 2nd in Latin America and 23rd in the World on English.

 English is only generally spoken in the tourist areas. For foreigners, life can be difficult if you are not able to speak Spanish at all. Life in the Dominican republic will be much easier if you even just know the basics. Moreover, Dominicans will appreciate it if foreigners try to have a conversation in their language. punta cana


Most stores and services, such as taxis and restaurants, accept both the Dominican Republic peso and the American dollar. You don't need to exchange your money ahead of time. Bring U.S. cash broken up into $1s and $5s for easier use while buying or tipping.


